
# A) North America

1. Which 3 countries constitute north America? (don’t include the Caribbean) 

	USA CANADA MEXICO ?

2. Which country is the biggest? (Which has the biggest area ?) 

	Canada :   (3,855,100 mi2)

3. Which country has the biggest population ? (Which country is the most populous) 

	USA 	328,239,523

4. How many territories/provinces are there in Canada ?

	10 provinces 3 territories

5. How many US state names start with a vowel ?

	12
	Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Ohio, Oklaoma, Oregon, Utah, 



# B) The USA 1 

1. How many states are there in the US ? 
	50
2. Which was the last state to join the union ? When was it? 
	[Hawaii](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawaii "Hawaii") in 1959
3. What is the capital of the USA ? Describe where it is 
	Washington D.C. (Colombia District) South of NY on the east Coast
4. How many time zones are there in the US ? 
	A lot (7ig)
5. What is the population of the USA ? (round it to say it) 
	329 Million
6. How far is the USA from Russia ? 
	23Milles
7. Which is the largest state ? 
	Alaska 665,384 square miles
8. Which is the most populous state ? 
	California, with a population of 39,538,223 people,
9. Which is the coldest state ?
	Alaska IG



# C) The USA 2 

1. Which state has the longest coastline? 
	Alaska	6,640 mi (10,690 km)
2. Name 3 states on the Canadian border 
	Washington, Montana, Wisconsin
3. Name 3 states which have straight line boundaries. Why do you think this is? 
	Wyoming, Colorado, Kansas , very Straight
4. What is the best way to travel from New York City to Los Angeles? 
	Plane
5. Which is the most westerly state? 
	Alaska
6. What is the main source of revenue for Dorothy’s state? (clue – she’s fictitious and has red shoes)


# D) Other 

1. What is route 66 ? How long is it ? Where does it start/finish ? 
   
   Route accross USA 2,448 mi (3,940 km) start in Chicago end in Los Angeles 
   
2. What are the names of the bodies of water along the US coast ? 
   
   Pacific, Atlantic, Golf of mexico, Artic Ocean  
   
3. Which island is currently in the news ? Why ? 
   
   Greenland
   
4. Name 4 of the Great Lakes. Where are they ? 
   
   Lake Erie, Lake Superior, Lake Ontario, Lake Michigan in CANADA,US
   
5. Name 2 big rivers in North America 

	Mississippi, Missouri
   
6. Look at the map of Central America. Choose a country and describe the flag to your partner for them to guess

